AND WELCOME TO THE
JANUARY MEETING OF THE
NEIGHBORS ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS, THE ZIBA.
MY NAME IS TOD GRANT AND I'M
TAKING THE PLACE OF KANSAS PER
YEAR.
I AM THE VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE
ZIBA THE QUBA IS A NINE PERSON
VOLUNTEER BOARD OF ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS WHO ARE NOMINATED BY
THE MAYOR AND APPROVED BY CITY
COUNCIL.
WE HAVE THREE APPLIQUE
STATIONS
TONIGHT AND FOR EACH
APPLICATION WILL PROCEED AS
FOLLOWS.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM CITY
STAFF PLANNING SERVICES IN THE
PERSON OF THE CITY.
>> ZONING COORDINATOR JOHN
BARRETT IS TO MY LEFT AND THEN
THE APPLICANT OR ITS
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION SUPPLEMENTING
THEIR PAPER APPLICATION
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION PUBLIC COMMENTS
ARE AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
WE MAY HAVE A PROBLEM TONIGHT
HOWEVER JOHN BARRETT WILL TALK
ABOUT MORE.
>> THIS IS THIS ZIBA MEETING IS
BEING BROADCAST ON CITY AND
CABLE CHANNELS 16 AT CHANNEL 96
AND ONLINE AT 8:00 TO GOV. DOUG
WATCH CTM.
WE MAY HAVE SOME DIFFICULTY
WITH PEOPLE CALLING IN TONIGHT
AND JOHN BARRETT WILL EXPLAIN
HOW TO GET AROUND THAT FOR
PEOPLE HERE IN THE AUDIENCE
WERE CALLING IN YOU WILL HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO SPEAK.
WE WILL THEN ACKNOWLEDGE
WRITTEN LETTERS AND ONLINE
EMAIL SUBMITTALS AND THEN THE
PUBLIC COMMENTARY WILL BE
CLOSED.
WE WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPLICATION AMONG OURSELVES AND
WE WILL PREPARE A MOTION WHICH
WILL THEN BE VOTED ON IN ORDER
TO APPROVE AN APPLICANT'S
REQUEST.
FIVE YES VOTES MUST BE ACHIEVED
IF THERE ARE FEWER THAN FIVE.
THE APPLICATION IS DENIED.
PEOPLE WHO ARE UNHAPPY ABOUT
THE DENIAL CAN THEN APPEAL
TIMELY TO THE WASHINGTON COUNTY
CIRCUIT COURT.
>> SO WE'VE CALLED THE ORDER
LET ME DO A ROLL CALL AND FOR
PEOPLE WHO ARE HERE CAN'T JUST
BE YEARS ABSENT DRAMA ACTION
HERE SADIR A CLERK HERE MIKE
DANIEL DAVE DEVOTEE ALREADY
HERE.
CHRISTINA LUSSAC HERE I AM
OBVIOUSLY HERE TODD GRANT I AM
HERE CHRIS MADIGAN HERE GRACE
WITH ME HERE.
>> GOOD.
WE HAVE MORE THAN FIVE PEOPLE
HERE.
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
WE CAN PROCEED AND THE FIRST
ITEM OF BUSINESS IS THE
APPROVAL OF TONIGHT'S AGENDA.
DO I HEAR A MOTION FOR THE
APPROVAL?
>> SO MOVE HAVE ALREADY MOVED
TO ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY YES.
YES, YES AGAINST ALL RIGHT.
>> THE FIRST SECOND PIECE IS
THE APPROVAL OF THE DECEMBER
MINUTES.
FIRST OF ALL, ARE THERE ANY
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS TO SUNDRY
MINUTES?
NO, I WAS GOING TO MOVE THE DEC
MINUTES I'M SORRY TO APPROVE
THAT DECEMBER MINUTE.
OK, SECOND ALL IN FAVOR I
ANTIBODY AGAINST IS NEVER
ANYBODY.
ALL RIGHT.
WE NOW MOVE ON TO ROLL FIRST
LET ME TURN IT OVER TO JOHN WHO
MAY HAVE SOME INSTRUCTIONS FOR
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO CALL IN IF
THERE ARE TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES.
YEP.
SO TONIGHT ANYONE CALLING IN
FOR ZOOME?
WE ARE HAVING TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES.
IT IS BEING BROADCAST BY CTM
AND LOCAL CHANNEL 16 AND ON
YOUTUBE IF YOU WANT TO CALL IN
PLEASE EMAIL TO PLANNING AT
EIGHT TO GUBJRG AND I'LL SAY
THAT AGAIN PLANNING AT EIGHT TO
GO OF THAT WORD AND IF YOU GET
THIS EMAIL IN AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE STAFF WILL GET THAT
EMAIL TO THE BOARD MEMBERS AS
THE APPLICATIONS ARE BEING
HEARD.
SO WITH THAT BEING SAID WE CAN
MOVE FORWARD TO OUR FIRST
PETITION THIS EVENING WHICH IS
THE FIRST PETITION IN ZIBA
NUMBER 23 JASH ZERO ZERO THREE
FOUR FOUR TWENTY ONE CHURCH
STREET.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
SO ROB FOWLER REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER IS REQUEST
REQUESTING RELIEF FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TWO
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
CONSTRUCT A THIRD STORY WITH
DORMERS ON THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING RENTAL BUILDING.
THE RESIDENCE IS AN EXISTING
FOUR BEDROOM UNIT.
THE PROPOSED ALTERATION WILL
INCREASE THE BUILDING TO A SIX
BEDROOM WITH ADDITIONAL
BEDROOMS IN THE BASEMENT AND
THE NEWLY PROPOSED THIRD STOREY
.
THE PROPERTY IS NONCONFORMING
FOR LOT AREA WITH AND SETBACKS.
THE THIRD STORY ADDITIONAL WILL
NOT ENCROACH FURTHER INTO THE
REQUIRED SETBACKS.
THE PROPERTY ZONED OUR FORESEE
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF CHURCH
STREET NEAR THE INTERSECTION
GATTI'S AVENUE AND WASHTENAW
COURT DIRECTLY ACROSS THE
STREET FROM THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
AND CENTRAL CAMPUS.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN
APPROXIMATELY NINETEEN HUNDRED
AND IS ONE THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED
AND SIXTY EIGHT SQUARE FEET IN
SIZE.
THE HOME IS CURRENTLY BEING
USED AS A CERTIFIED STUDENT
RENTAL THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE
RESIDENCE WILL RECEIVE A
REMODEL THAT WILL INCLUDE THE
REMOVAL OF THE EXISTING BEDROOM
BEING REPLACED WITH A DINING
ROOM AND THE RELOCATION OF THE
EXISTING BATHROOM.
THE SECOND FLOOR CURRENTLY HAS
THREE BEDROOMS AND ONE BATHROOM
.
THE RENOVATION WILL REMOVE A
BEDROOM AND ADD A BATHROOM TO
THE SECOND FOR THE NEW THIRD
FLOOR.
CONSTRUCTION WILL CREATE TWO
NEW BEDROOMS AND TWO BATHROOMS.
THE BASEMENT RENOVATION WORK
WILL CREATE TWO NEW BEDROOMS
AND TWO BATHROOMS AS WELL.
THE TOTAL BEDROOM COUNT WILL
INCREASE TO SIX BEDROOMS AND
SEVEN BATHROOMS.
THE OCCUPANT LOAD SHALL NOT
EXCEED SIX UNRELATED PERSONS
FOR THE STRUCTURE.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITOR YOU SEE THE
FIRST SLIDE IS THE ZONING MAP.
YOU SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED CASTLE
IN THE CENTER KIND OF LOOKS
LIKE HOME PLATE IN BASEBALL AND
YOU SEE HOW IT'S LET ME GET MY
OH I'M IN TROUBLE WITH THE
CURSOR ANYWAY THE NEXT SLIDE IS
THE LOCATION MAP.
>> YOU SEE THE EXISTING
HIGHLIGHTED CASTLE IN THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN AND ITS
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOODS, THE
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
UNIVERSITY CAMPUS TO THE WEST.
>> THIS IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL
PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND YOU SEE ITS
CURRENT CONFIGURATION.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS SHOWING
THE NEWLY PROPOSED FIRST FLOOR.
LIKE I SAID, THERE WON'T BE ANY
BEDROOMS ON THIS FLOOR.
THERE'S GOING TO BE A LIVING
ROOM, A DINING ROOM AND A
KITCHEN IN THE BATHROOM NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE NEW SECOND
FLOOR WITH THE TWO BEDROOMS AND
THE TWO BATHS AND THE NEXT THE
NEW THIRD FLOOR WITH THE
DORMERS IS GOING TO HAVE THE
BEDROOMS THREE AND FOUR WITH
TWO BATHROOMS.
AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE NEWLY
PROPOSED BASEMENT CREATE A NEW
HABITABLE SPACE WITH THE TWO
BEDROOMS OF THE TWO BARS IN THE
BASEMENT.
THESE ARE THE EXISTING
ELEVATIONS FROM THE EAST AND
NORTH THAT WERE SUBMITTED WITH
THE APPLICATION.
YOU SEE HOW THEY'RE CURRENTLY
EXISTING AND THE WEST AND THE
SOUTH AND THESE ARE THE NEW
PROPOSED ELEVATION.
YOU SEE THE NEW DORMER AND ON
THE TOP OF THE THIRD FLOOR AND
THE PROPOSED CHANGES AND THE
WEST AND SOUTH ELEVATIONS WITH
THIS NEW DORMONT DORMER ON TOP
.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK ON MY INSPECTION.
THE PROPERTY YOU SEE THIS IS
FROM THE WEST ELEVATION OF THE
FRONT DIRECTLY FROM CHURCH
STREET AND THIS IS LOOKING DOWN
THE NORTH ELEVATION NORTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS THE SOUTH ELEVATION
SOUTH SIDE OF THE HOUSE WITH
THE DRIVEWAY GO INTO THE
BACKYARD THIS IS LOOKING ALONG
THE SOUTH ELEVATION TO THE
ABUTTING PROPERTIES.
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
REAR OF THE HOME, THE EAST
ELEVATION AND THIS IS LOOKING
AT THE BACKYARD AND BETWEEN THE
TWO STRUCTURES YOU CAN SEE
THESE HOMES IN THIS AREA ARE
STUDENT RENTALS THAT ARE VERY
CLOSE PROXIMITY TO ONE ANOTHER
.
THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION
AND I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
WELL, RIGHT.
CNN WE NOW HAVE THE APPLICANTS
PRESENTATION MR. FOWLER, HELLO
AGAIN.
THANK YOU
.
SO AS JOHN SAID, THIS IS
CURRENTLY A FOUR BEDROOM TWO
BATH AND WE'D LIKE TO UPDATE
IT, UPDATE THE FINISHES THE
WINDOWS, GET IT MORE ENERGY
EFFICIENT AND YOU MAXIMIZE OUR
DENSITY ON THIS PROPERTY.
IT'S IT'S RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF STUDENT HOUSING.
>> THIS OWNER OWNS SEVERAL
HOUSES SURROUNDING THIS.
SO PARKING CAN BE JOINED
TOGETHER TO MAKE UP FOR A
COUPLE OF NEW TENANTS.
THAT'S ABOUT IT.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR MR. FOWER?
ALL RIGHT.
YOU KNOW MR. ANYBODY FROM THE
AUDIENCE WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT
ON THIS AND HERE COMES THE
DIFFICULT PART.
>> IS ANYBODY E-MAILED IN ONCE
AGAIN THAT EMAIL ADDRESS
IS
PLANNING PLAY AND THEN I THINK
AT A TWO WHICH IS THE NUMBER
TWO GUBJRG PLANNING THAT TO
GIVE THAT ORDER IF ANYONE HAS
ANY COMMENTS AND WOULD LIKE TO
COMMUNICATE ANY CORRESPONDENCE
ON THIS PETITION PLEASE EMAIL
AS SOON AS YOU CAN AND WE WILL
DO OUR BEST TO PROCESS THAT
EMAIL AND DISTRIBUTE TO THE
MEMBERS OF THE ZIBA.
>> I DO HAVE A QUESTION.
YES MR. FOWLER.
SO BASEMENT THOSE NEW BEDROOMS
DOWN THERE WILL HAVE EGRESS
WINDOWS.
YES, EACH OF THEM AND THOSE ARE
GOING TO BE NEW.
>> EACH BED WILL HAVE ITS OWN
INDIVIDUAL WINDOW.
>> WELL, AND THEN JUST CURIOUS
LOOKING AT THE STRUCTURE,
WHAT'S UP IN THE ATTIC AREA
NOW?
>> IS THERE ANY LIVING SPACE OR
IS IT GOING TO BE TOTALLY
DEVELOPED IN SPACE?
THE PITCH IS TOO TIGHT TO
REALLY HAVE ANY TYPE ITS ATTIC
SPACE THEN THAT'S THAT'S REALLY
THAT'S WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE.
>> OK, THAT'S ALL I WANT TO DO
WONDER THANK YOU.
>> AND I THINK THERE WERE NO
EMAILS OR LETTERS ABOUT THIS
PROGRAM APPLICATION BEFORE
TONIGHT.
>> CORRECT GREG BUT WITHOUT
PUBLIC INPUT IS CLOSED AND WE
NEED DISCUSSION I GUESS THERE'S
NOT MUCH TO DISCUSSION WE READY
TO DO EMOTIONAL DEPTH.
>> I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT THIS
IS COMES BEFORE US AS AN
ALTERATION TO A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
THE STANDARDS FOR A REVIEW ARE
NOT STRINGENT AS IF THE
PROPOSAL WAS A FULL VARIANCE
AND IT'S DOESN'T ADD ANYTHING.
IT DOESN'T INCREASE THE
NONCONFORMITY AT ALL.
IT'S TOTALLY IN KEEPING WITH
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT'S EASY
FOR ME TO SUPPORT THIS.
I THINK IT EASILY MEETS OUR
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL FOR A AS
AN ALTERATION OR NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE IN THE OTHER
COUNTRIES.
IS SOMEBODY WANT TO READ?
SURE.
I'LL MAKE THE MORE USUAL ROAD
CHRIS CAN DO THE NEXT ZEBA
TWENTY THREE ZERO ZERO THREE
FOUR FOUR TWENTY ONE CHURCH
STREET ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION WOULD
NONPERFORMANCE STRUCTURE TO
ALLOW CONSTRUCTION OF A THIRD
STOREY WITH DORMERS ON THE
EXISTING NONCONFORMING RENTAL
BUILDING?
THE RESIDENCE IS AN EXISTING
FOUR BEDROOM UNIT.
THE PROPOSED ALTERATION WILL
INCREASE THE BUILDING TO A SIX
BEDROOM WITH ADDITIONAL
BEDROOMS IN THE BASEMENT AND
THE NEWLY PROPOSED THIRD STORY
THE ALTERATION IS TO BE BUILT
PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS,
SUPPORT AND NOW ARE READY TO
CALL FOR A VOTE.
I VOTE YES CHRIS YES.
GREECE YES.
SADARA YES.
DARMA YES.
DAVE DEVADASI YES.
AND CHRIS DENHA YES.
SEVEN TO ZERO.
THE APPLICATION PASSES HERE ON
TO THE SECOND APPLICATION
TONIGHT WHICH IS ZIBA NUMBER
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE SIX FOUR TWENTY ONE
BENJAMIN STREET AND RIGHT HERE
ONCE AGAIN ROB FOWLER
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS REQUESTING RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TWO NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE IN ORDER TO CONSTRUCT
A THIRD STORY WITH DORMERS ON
THE EXISTING NONCONFORMING
RENTAL BUILDING.
THE RESIDENCE IS AN EXISTING
FOUR BEDROOM UNIT.
THE PROPOSED ALTERATION WILL
INCREASE THE BUILDING TO SIX
BEDROOMS WITH ADDITIONAL
BEDROOMS IN THE NEWLY PROPOSED
THIRD STORY.
THE PROPERTY IS NOT CONFORMING
FOR A LOT AREA LOT WITH INSIDE
THAT BOX AND THE WEST SIDE
OF THE PARCEL THE PROPERTY IS
OWNED FOR THE MULTIPLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE NORTH SIDE OF BENJAMIN
STREET BETWEEN SOUTH DIVISION
STREET AND CIVIL STREET DUE
EAST OF ELBEL FAILED.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN 1924 AND
IS APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND
TWO HUNDRED THIRTY EIGHT SQUARE
FEET IN SIZE.
THE HOME IS CURRENTLY A
CERTIFIED STUDENT RENTAL THE
FIRST FLOOR OF THE HOME WILL
RECEIVE A REMODEL WITH NO NEW
BEDROOMS BEING CREATED .
THE EXISTING SECOND FLOOR HAS
THREE BEDROOMS AND A BATHROOM.
THE SECOND FLOOR CONSTRUCTION
WILL ELIMINATE A BEDROOM AND A
BATHROOM.
WAIT A SECOND
.
IS THAT RIGHT?
LET'S SO OUR NEWLY PROPOSED
THIRD FLOOR WILL HOUSE THREE
BEDROOMS AND TWO BATHROOMS
EXCUSE ME.
THERE IS NO CONSTRUCTION BEING
CONSIDERED FOR THE BASEMENT
UPON COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT
THE HOME WILL CONTAIN SIX
BEDROOMS, FIVE BATHROOMS TO BE
UTILIZED BY A MAXIMUM OF SIX
UNRELATED OCCUPANTS.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
THE FIRST ONE THAT WAS
CONFUSING THE FIRST ONE WITH
THE SECOND ONE.
BUT THIS ONE IS NOT GOING TO
HAVE ANY CONSTRUCTION IN THE
BASEMENT AS OPPOSED TO THE LAST
ONE THAT DID VERY CONFUSING.
SORRY.
ALL RIGHT.
IF YOU TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MINERS, THE FIRST SLIDE IS
THE ZONING MAP AND YOU CAN SEE
THE SUBJECT PARCEL IN THE
CENTER OF THE SCREEN
HIGHLIGHTED AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE LOCATION MAP AND YOU SEE
THE EXISTING PROPERTY SURROUND
THE EXISTING CONDITIONS IN
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOODS AND
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE STREET.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND YOU SEE THE
HOME AND ITS CURRENT
CONFIGURATION IN RELATIONSHIP
TO THE PROPERTY LINES.
LIKE I STATED, IT DOES NOT MEET
THE SIDE SETBACK FOR THE WEST
SIDE OR LOT AREA OR LOT WITH
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE NEWLY
PROPOSED FIRST FLOOR.
YOU SEE THE LIVING ROOM, DINING
ROOM AND A BEDROOM IN THE REAR
AND THE KITCHEN.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE SECOND AND
THIRD FLOOR PLANS YOU SEE THIS
SECOND FLOOR HAS TWO BEDROOMS
AND TWO BATHROOMS AND THE NEW
THIRD FLOOR WILL HAVE THREE
BEDROOMS AND TWO BATHROOMS.
THESE ARE THE NEW ELEVATIONS
THAT ARE BEING PROPOSED.
YOU SEE THE WEST AND THE SOUTH
ELEVATIONS, THE WEST ONE
SHOWING THE REAR OF THE HOME
AND THESE ARE THE EAST AND THE
NEW NORTH ELEVATION'S.
THESE ARE SHOWING THE EXISTING
EAST ELEVATION, THE EXISTING
NORTH ELEVATION AND THE
EXISTING WEST AND EXISTING
SOUTH ELEVATION'S.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS OF THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY WHEN I MADE MY
INSPECTION YOU CAN SEE THE
FRONT OF THE HOUSE IN ITS
CURRENT STATE.
THIS IS LOOKING DOWN THE SHARED
DRIVEWAY BETWEEN THE TWO
PROPERTIES ON THE WEST SIDE
OF THE HOME.
THIS IS LOOKING IN THE REAR
YARD, THE EXISTING PARKING LOT
AND SURROUNDING PROPERTIES TO
THE REAR.
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
REAR ELEVATION.
THE HOME NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
ADJACENT PROPERTY TO THE WEST
AND THIS IS THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY TO THE EAST.
THAT IS ALL I HAVE FOR THIS
APPLICATION AND I CAN TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE AT
THIS TIME.
>> GRACE, THIS IS JUST A
GENERAL QUESTION.
IF SOMEONE WERE INCREASING THE
NON CONFORMITY THEY WOULD HAVE
TO REQUEST A VARIANCE.
MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
CORRECTLY?
THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, BUT THAT'S JUST A YOU KNOW,
THESE ARE ALL ALTERATIONS HERE.
BUT IF THEY WERE GOING TO DO AN
ADDITION AND IT DIDN'T MEET THE
SETBACKS EXPANDING THE
NONCONFORMITY, THEN IT WOULD
REQUIRE THE VARIANCE.
OK, GOT IT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
ALL RIGHT.
>> SEE NONE.
MR FELLER.
YOU'RE UP.
I SAY YOU DON'T HIT A HOME RUN
LAST YEAR AND THIS APPLICATION
WAS CONFUSING BECAUSE THEY BOTH
ARE FOR TWENTY ONE YEAH.
TWENTY ONE THIRD FAULKNERIAN
BENJA AND THEY'RE BASICALLY
ALMOST DOING THE EXACT SAME
THING.
THAT'S WHY I THOUGHT I WAS
READING THE WRONG PIECE
OF PAPER BUT I WASN'T ALL THAT
STAFF REPORT.
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING IS
THAT YOU DON'T GET CONFUSED
HERE.
YEAH WE JUST GOT THE WRONG
HOUSE.
YEAH SOME IDEAS WE'LL GIVE
THESE KIDS A DECENT NICE SIZED
COMMON AREA AND THEN WE'RE
TRYING TO DO BEDROOMS ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY SQUARE FOOT
RANGE.
SO ONE WAY TO DO THAT IS TO GO
UP BECAUSE WE'RE TRYING TO
COMPETE WITH HIGH RISES, NEW
BUILDS, THINGS LIKE THAT AND
WE'RE AGAIN RIGHT IN THE HEART
OF STUDENT HOUSING.
THERE'S PLENTY OF PARKING IN
THE PARKING LOT BEHIND.
SO I DON'T KNOW IT'S NOT GOING
TO IMPACT THE NEIGHBORHOOD
.
THE LOOK DATE.
SO I HAVE A QUESTION BECAUSE
THERE IS KIND OF MIDWAY THROUGH
THERE IS THE UPPER FLOOR IS
KIND OF PERPENDICULAR TO THE
WAY THE FRONT OF THE BUILDING
IS ARRAYED AND AND YOU'RE
PUTTING A THIRD FLOOR ON.
ARE YOU DOING ANYTHING ABOVE
THE REAR?
>> YOU'VE GOT A ONE STORY
THAT'S KIND OF AN OLD SON AND
YOU'RE AND PROBABLY MAY NOT
HAVE A PROPER FOUNDATION IF IT
WAS BUILT ON YOURS.
IT'S YEAH, IT'S LUCKY TO BE
STANDING.
THEY'VE GOT BETTER.
SO YOU'RE NOT DOING ANYTHING
ABOUT THAT.
>> IT'S JUST A FOUNDATION I
DON'T THINK WOULD CARRY IT OR
WE'D HAVE TO REDO IT AS LONG AS
WE GET OUR SIX BEDROOMS AND
MAKE EVERYTHING NICE WE'RE
GOING TO WE'RE GOING TO FIX
THAT UP, MAKE IT THE CODE AND
WRITE WEATHER TYPE AND JUST
LEAVE IT WELL UNDERSTOOD.
THANK OK AND PROBABLY DOESN'T
NEED TO YES BUT I DIDN'T SEE IT
IN WRITING IN THIS ONE.
YOU'RE NOT FURTHER ENCROACHING
ON ANY OF .
NO I'M STAYING RIGHT WITHIN THE
ENVELOPE OK BUT BUILDING UP MR
OK THANK YOU.
>> ANYBODY IN THE AUDIENCE WHO
WISHES TO COMMENT ON THIS
APPLICATION SEE NONE AND
CONTINUE TO HAVE ANYBODY THAT'S
EMAILED IT.
>> I HAVE NOT RECEIVED ANY
COMMUNICATIONS OK AND MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THERE WERE NO
WRITTEN LETTERS OR OTHER
EMAILS.
THE BILLS BEFORE TODAY EITHER
WRITE CORRECT.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT WELL LEVET
THEN THE PUBLIC COMMENT SECTION
IS CLOSE AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION.
OK DAVE I JUST WANT TO REPEAT
AND THIS IS PRIMARILY FOR ANY
VIEWERS AT HOME AND NOT JUST
TONIGHT BUT WHEN IT'S IN REPLAY
AGAIN WE'RE CONSIDERING AN
ALTERATION TO A NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE.
THE STANDARDS FOR OUR APPROVAL
ARE ARE NOT VERY STRINGENT.
THE BUILDER THE DEVELOPER IS
STAYING WITHIN THE EXISTING
ENVELOPE OF THE BUILDING SO NOT
AND NO FURTHER INCURSION INTO
ANY SETBACKS.
EASY ONE FOR ME TO SUPPORT.
>> I THINK IT'S TIME FOR MOTION
.
I'LL DO THAT AND IT'S NICE THAT
PEOPLE ARE TAKING TURNS THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS RELIEF FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT THREE TO POINT TO
ALTERATION TO A NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE TO ALLOW CONSTRUCTION
OF A THIRD STOREY WITH DORMERS
TO EXISTING NONCONFORMING
RENTAL BUILDING.
THE RESIDENCE IS AN EXISTING
FOUR BEDROOM UNIT.
THE PROPOSED ALTERATION WILL
INCREASE THE BUILDING TO SIX
BEDROOMS WITH ADDITIONAL
BEDROOMS IN THE NEWLY PROPOSED
THIRD STOREY.
>> THE ALTERATION IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THIS MOTION IS VERY SIMILAR TO
THE LAST ONE THIS FOR ZIBA
TWENTY THREE ZERO ZERO THREE
SIX FOUR TWENTY ONE BENJAMN
STREET.
>> THANK YOU CHRIS.
>> I'LL SUPPORT YES SECOND GOOD
THANK YOU AND READY TO VOTE
DARMA YES.
SUBSIDIARY YES DAVE GIVATI YES.
CHRISTINA YES I ALSO VOTE YES
CHRIS YES IN GREECE.
>> YES.
SO THIS IS ALSO PAST SEVEN TO
ZERO AND THE APPLICATION IS
APPROVED.
GOOD.
THANK SIR.
BUT NOW OUR THIRD AND FINAL
APPLICATION FOR THIS EVENING
ZIEBA FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO FIVE
FIVE TWO FIVE ZERO ONE AVANTE
AVENUE JOHN MARRONNIER SIGN
GROUP REPRESENTING PROPERTY
OWNERS ARE REQUESTING A
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
TWENTY FOUR DASH FOR
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
PERMANENT SIGNS THE OWNERS ARE
PROPOSING TO INSTALL.
THIRTEEN ILLUMINATED THE LOCAL
SIGNS APPROXIMATELY 35 FEET
FROM THE GROUND THE MAXIMUM
HEIGHT FOR WOLESI FOR A
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT IS TEN FEET FROM THE
GROUND.
THE APPLICANTS ARE ALSO SEEKING
TO INSTALL TWO LOGO SIGNS ON
SIX BUILDINGS FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT TO SIGN ORDINANCE
ALLOWS FOR ONE WALL SIGN PER
BUILDING.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED R FOR B
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTIES LOCATED
ON THE WEST SIDE OF SOUTH MAPLE
ROAD AT PAULENE AND AT THE
PAULENE BOULEVARD INTERSECTION
EAST OF I-95.
THE PROPERTY IS CURRENTLY UNDER
CONSTRUCTION FOR A NEW 256 UNIT
TOWNHOME COMPLEX.
THE PROPOSED AL-SAID
ILLUMINATED LOGO SIGNS ARE FIVE
POINT EIGHTY THREE SQUARE FEET
EACH TO BE INSTALLED ON THE
THIRD FLOOR OF THE BUILDING.
THE LOGO SIGNS ARE A BLACK AND
WHITE LETTER A EACH MONOGRAM
SIGN IS USED TO IDENTIFY THE
TWO MAIN ENTRANCES OF EACH
BUILDING.
EACH BUILDING HAS TWO SETS
OF EIGHT RENTAL UNITS.
THE LOGO SIGNS ARE PROPOSED TO
BE INSTALLED ON BUILDINGS FOR
SIX, 11, 12, 14 AND 16.
IF YOU TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITORS
ON ABOUT ONE
SECOND TO GO BELOW
THIS WITH
THE SPLIT SCREEN FOR NOW I
GUESS THIS IS WHY IS THAT THERE
?
ALL RIGHT.
THE FIRST SCREEN IS THE
LOCATION THAT YOU SEE THIS
OBJECT PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED IN
GREEN AND YOU SEE IT BETWEEN
SOUTH MAPLE AND NINETY FOUR AND
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE LOCATION
MAP.
SO SHOWING SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOODS AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
AND YOU SEE THE SITE ITS
CURRENT CURRENT CONFIGURATION
MOST OF YOU ARE PROBABLY
FAMILIAR WITH THE SITE IS YOU
KNOW IT'S UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
THIS IS THE SURVEY THAT I FOUND
FOR THE APPLICANT AND THE OLD
SITE PLAN FROM 2017 AND TWENTY
EIGHTEEN FROM MIDWESTERN
CONSULTING.
THIS IS THE FIVE POINT EIGHT
THREE SQUARE FOOT RENDERING
OF THE PROPOSED LOGO SIGN
THAT'S GOING TO BE INSTALLED AT
EACH OF THESE BUILDINGS.
>> THIRD FLOOR GABLED THE PEAK
THIS IS THE TYPICAL APARTMENT
BUILDING FRONT.
>> YOU SEE THE MONOGRAM LOGO A
AND THIS IS WHERE THEY'RE
SUPPOSED TO BE PUTTING THE 35
FOOT MARK ABOVE THE GROUND.
>> THESE ARE THE PHOTOS I TOOK
MY INSPECTION.
>> YOU SEE THE EXISTING
CLUBHOUSE FROM MAPLE ROAD.
THIS IS ONE OF THE BUILDINGS
THAT THE CURRENT OWNER
CONSTRUCTION AND YOU'D SEE
WHERE THE PROPOSED LOGO LETTERS
ARE GOING TO BE INSTALLED ON
THAT THIRD FLOOR PEAK.
THIS IS AN OVERVIEW OF PICTURE
A PHOTO OF THE SITE IN ITS
CURRENT CONFIGURATION.
YOU SEE LIKE I SAID, IT'S IT'S
UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
ANOTHER RENTAL BUILDING THAT
UNDER CONSTRUCTION OR BEING
FINISHED AND YOU CAN SEE THE
STYLE OF DEVELOPMENT THE
BUILDING THAT CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION.
>> I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME
,CHRIS.
>> AND I'M SORRY.
SO I I'M LOOKING AT THIS PAGE
RIGHT HERE.
SO WHAT I'M LOOKING AT HERE IS
THE CLUBHOUSE.
IT'S ADJACENT TO MAPLE,
CORRECT?
RIGHT WHERE WE'RE ON THE SITE
OR IS IS THE ONE THAT'S GOING
THROUGH IT'S THIS NOW THAT'S
THE CLUBHOUSE OF THE AND WHAT
IS THIS VIEWABLE FROM MAPLE IS
WABLE FROM
NINETY FOUR WHAT IS THE
OBJECTIVE THERE.
>> MAYBE I CAN I CAN WAY YEAH
THAT MIGHT BE A QUESTION THAT'S
BETTER IF YOU GUYS COULD
ADDRESS WHAT WHERE IS ACTUALLY
FROM THE HEIGHT IS THAT POINT
WHEN YOU GUYS GET TO YOUR
PRESENTATION IF YOU COULD JUST
TALK ABOUT IS IT SUPPOSED TO BE
AVAILABLE FOR PEOPLE TO MIND
FOR A DIFFERENT THAT WOULD BE
HELPFUL.
YEAH THAT THAT'S ALL I GOT
DORMANT SO I'M JUST TRYING TO
MAKE SURE THAT I'M CLEAR ABOUT
THE VARIANCE BEING REQUESTED.
I THINK IT'S TO ONE IS TO HAVE
THE LOGO SIGNE'S A LOT OF SIGNS
AT A MUCH HIGHER ELEVATION THAN
IS NORMALLY ALLOWED AND TWO IS
TO HAVE TO PER BUILDING INSTEAD
OF ONE.
CORRECT JOHN?
>> SO I'M SORRY THAT QUESTION I
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I'M
UNDERSTANDING WHAT'S BEING
REQUESTED VARIANCE WISE AND I
THINK IT'S TWO THINGS CORRECT.
ONE IS THE HEIGHT AND THE OTHER
IS HAVING TWO PER BUILDING AND
CAN YOU CLARIFY FOR ME WHAT
MAKES A SIGN SIGN IS THAT THE
DEFINITION OF A SIGN IT'S I
DON'T HAVE IT BEFORE ME.
I CAN GO GET IT IN A MINUTE
JUST BECAUSE I SEE THE ARGUMENT
BEING MADE ABOUT BEING ABLE TO
IDENTIFY DIFFERENT ENTRANCES
AND ENTRANCES I THINK TO THE
BUILDING AS A NEED.
AND I'M JUST WONDERING ARE
THERE OTHER WAYS TO ACCOMPLISH
BESIDES A SIGN THAT IS SUBJECT
TO THESE VARIATIONS?
SOUNDS LIKE YOU MIGHT HAVE SOME
IDEAS.
>> SO I MEAN THEY QUALIFY IT
NEEDS TO SIGN CODE DEFINITION
OF SIGN ORDINANCE BUT IT'S
ANYTHING THAT IS USED TO
ASSOCIATE WITH A BUSINESS OR A
PRODUCT OR A HOME.
IT ANYTHING THAT DRAWS
ATTENTION FROM A PUBLIC ROAD OR
RIGHT AWAY UM USES AN
IDENTIFYING MARKER LIKE LOGO
LOGO EMBLEM GOT IT.
>> WHALSAY A FREESTANDING SIGN
WHERE WERE YOU HERE FOR THE
SIGN VARIANCE REQUEST THAT WE
HAD FOR A RESTAURANT ON MAIN
STREET UNION REP FOR UNION SO
WE HAD AN SCAFF ULTIMATELY
DETERMINED THAT NOT ONLY WAS
THE BRANDING PART OF THE SIGN
BUT THE COLOR AROUND THE SIGN
WAS PART OF THE SIGN AND
ULTIMATELY WAS TOO BIG.
SO I THINK THAT THE GENERAL
INTERPRETATION CAN INCLUDE THE
COLORING IS BRANDING AS WELL
BUT ALSO IF IT'S JUST FOR
IDENTIFICATION OF ENTRANCES AND
EXITS AND WAYFINDING AND STUFF
,I'M CERTAIN THAT OUR
ORDINANCE HAS DIRECTIONAL
SIGNAGE WHICH IS TYPICALLY IF
YOU'RE UNDER A CERTAIN SIZE ARE
EXEMPT FROM TWO FOUR SQUARE
FEET WHATEVER YOU CAN SAY ONE
WAY OR ENTRANCE AND EXIT AND
STUFF LIKE THAT THAT WOULD BE
EXEMPT FROM COMMERCIAL BRANDING
.
UH, THE QUESTION FOR JOHN SO
DOES THE ILLUMINATION OF THESE
THIRTY FIVE FOOT HIGH LOGOS IS
THAT PART OF THE VARIANCE
REQUEST?
NO.
SO IT'S JUST THE SIZE OF THEM
AND THE HEIGHT OF THE NUMBER
OF THEM AND THE HEIGHT OF THEM.
>> CORRECT.
AND FOR MULTI-FAMILY BUILDINGS
ARE ONLY ALLOWED TO HAVE ONE
WALL AND SO THEY'RE PROPOSING
TO INSERT THIS NUMBER IN THE
MAXIMUM HEIGHT IS TEN FEET BUT
STEEL AND ALUMINUM WHICH WE
DON'T HAVE ANY REGULATIONS.
WE DO THEY'RE ILLUMINATED.
>> WE DO THAT WILL HAVE TO
COMPLY WITH THE SIGN
ILLUMINATION PART OF THE CODE .
>> OK, I JUST WANT TO SAY ALSO
IF THERE ARE COLORS PLEASE
WE'RE HAVING TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES.
PLEASE EMAIL YOUR COMMENTS THAT
PLANNING AT EIGHT TO GUBJRG
AND WE'LL DO OUR BEST TO
ADDRESS THOSE RACE.
SO I'M JUST KIND OF UNCLEAR THE
SIGN WHEN THERE'S TWO PER
BUILDING IT'S ONE LIKE UP ON
THAT P THERE AND THEN LIKE ON
THE REVERSE SIDE IS THAT WHAT
I'M UNDERSTANDING RIGHT.
>> WHERE IS THE SECOND SIGN FOR
BUILDING THEY'RE GOING TO WELL
WHAT THE APPLICANT SAY WHAT
WERE THEY PROPOSING IN YOUR
POCKET TO ON THE BUILDING
SHOULD BE SHOWN ON THE ON THE
BUILDING.
IT'S NOT I THINK THE OPINIONS
OF DISCRIMINATION.
YEAH.
SO WE DEFINITELY HAVE ONE
ELEVATION I THINK IS IT JUST
THE REVERSE IS IT JUST ON THE
OTHER SIDE.
>> YEAH THAT'S NO I BELIEVE
IT'S GOING TO BE ONE ON EACH
FACE SO I THINK THAT DRAWING
MAYBE MIGHT NEED TO BE REVISED
TO BE TWO ON EACH FACE AND ONE
ON THE LEFT ALONG THE RIGHT.
BUT I THINK THAT'S JUST AN
EXAMPLE OF HOW IT WOULD BE
PLACE.
OK, ANOTHER QUESTION MAYBE THAT
MAYBE WOULD I'M STILL CONFUSED
AND AND JOHN, HOW MANY
BUILDINGS TOTAL ARE THERE FOR
THE PROPERTY?
YEAH, SO THIS SIGN APPROACH IS
BEING APPLIED TO HANG ON SIR
BECAUSE THIS IS JUST A PARTIAL
SITE PLAN WE YEAH BUT IT WILL
BE THIRTEEN.
OK, YEAH THEY'RE INSTALLING
THIRTEEN SITES BUT THEY'RE
GOING TO HAVE THESE ADDITIONAL
TWO ONE SIX BUILDING OK OK AND
EACH ONE IS THIS EXACT SAME
DESIGN.
>> YES THEY'RE ALL FIVE POINT
EIGHTY THREE SQUARE FEET THE
SAME AND THEY'RE ALL
ILLUMINATED OK SO I HAVE A
QUESTION JOHN BUT I THINK IT'S
PIGGYBACKING ON CHRISTINE A
LITTLE CONFUSED SO WE HAVE
THIRTEEN LOGO'S LINES THAT ARE
ILLUMINATED 35 FEET UP AND
THEY'RE THE LETTER A AND
THEY'RE 30 INCHES TALL AND 28
INCHES WIDE AND THAT'S THIRTEEN
TO THEM.
BUT THEN THERE ARE ALSO TWELVE
MONOGRAMS SIGNS THAT ARE NOT
ILLUMINATED OR THE SAME SHAPE
THE SAME LETTER.
>> NO THE THIRTEEN OR ALL THE A
AMONT TRAMLINES.
OH SO WHAT THERE THAT IS THE
LOGO OR MONOGRAM SO WE'RE NOT
TALKING ABOUT THESE FIVE SIGNS
WE'RE ONLY TALKING THIRTEEN.
CORRECT BECAUSE THAT WAS A
LITTLE CONFUSING THE WAY I
MISREAD THE FIRST PARAGRAPH.
OKAY SO THEY'RE JUST THIRTEEN
SITES THAT'S THE SIGN RIGHT
THERE.
>> THEY'RE ONE IN THIRTEEN
OF THOSE GO AND NO OTHER SIGN
JUST THIRTEEN OF THESE CORRECT.
OK AND ARE THEY ALL THIRTY FIVE
HERE CORRECT.
YES LOOKING GOOD AND MAKING IT
WAY MORE COMPLEX THAN THEY NEED
TO DO THAT.
>> THANK YOU DAVE.
ONE MORE QUESTION FOR JOHN.
>> SO IF THESE EIGHT SIGNS
WHICH THE PETITIONER IS ARGUING
ARE FOR IDENTIFYING THE
ENTRANCE LOCATION OF ENTRANCES
WE'RE DOWN ABOVE THE ENTRANCE
DOORS SO DOWN JUST ABOVE THE
FIRST FLOOR AND BELOW THE
SECOND FLOOR WINDOWS I'M
LOOKING AT THE THING THEY WOULD
COMPLY WITH OUR OUR
CODE IN TERMS OF HEIGHT.
YES.
IF THEY DIDN'T EXCEED TEN FEET
IN.
>> YEP.
SO THAT IT'S JUST THAT THEY'RE
WAY UP AT THE TOP OF THE PEAK
OF THE BUILDING AS OPPOSED TO
LOWER DOWN HERE.
>> OK, THANK CORRECT.
BUT THEY'RE ALSO VERY
ACCESSIBLE THEY'RE ALLOWED
THAT'S A NUMBER OF SIGN RIGHT.
>> NO I'M JUST ASKING ABOUT THE
HEIGHT ISSUE AND I UNDERSTAND
THAT NUMBER IS ANOTHER ISSUE.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS PER JOB?
OK, I GUESS WE'RE READY TO HEAR
FROM THE APPLICANT, SIR AND
STATE YOUR NAME PLEASE AND SIGN
IN.
>> YES, MY I'M FROM
CRIMINOLOGY.
>> WE ARE THE SIGN MANUFACTURER
MUGGA ANGERER EENG JA JA THANK
IF I MAY I DON'T KNOW IF YOU
HAD A CHANCE TO SEE THIS
DRAWING IT AS FAR AS I DON'T
THINK THAT ONE IS INVOLVED AS
BEST AS YOU CAN SEE THE SIZE
OF THE BUILDINGS AND WHERE OH
SO THIS IS ALL ONE BUILDING
THAT'S ALL ONE BUILDING CORRECT
THEY'RE BUILDING OK THAT'S WAY
YEAH FOR FRONT FOOT THERE'S NOT
ONLY IS THAT SOMETHING IT
DEPICTS THE ENTRY THERE'S I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU CAN GO BACK
TO ONE OF THE SLIDES THAT HAD
ALL THE SIDE VIEW LOOKING DOWN
THIS IS ONE ON ONE OR IF YOU GO
TO THE NOT FOR I'M SORRY IT WAS
THE ONE WHERE WE ARE LOOKING UP
THE SIDE OF THE BUILDING RIGHT
THERE.
IF YOU TOOK A LOOK AT THAT AND
YOU WOULDN'T KNOW WHAT DOOR
WOULD BE THE MAIN ENTRANCE FOR
YOUR COMMON ENTRY VERSUS YOUR
PRIVATE ENTRANCE.
SO BUT ANYHOW THERE'S THERE'S
SO MANY DOORS GOING DOWN.
THERE'S A LOT OF PRIVATE
ENTRANCES FOR THE PEOPLE THERE
ON THE FIRST FLOOR THAT HAVE
THEIR APARTMENTS THERE.
THEN THE COMMON ENTRANCE IF YOU
WILL, THAT GOES IN.
THERE'S MULTIPLE STAIRS AND ALL
THAT TO GO TO MULTIPLE FLOORS
SO THAT THE WHOLE IDEA IS TO
MARK THEM SO THAT THEY CAN SEE
WHERE THEY GO.
>> YEAH, ALSO IT ALSO FOLLOWS
THE CONCEPTS OF OTHER BUILDINGS
THAT HAVE BEEN BUILT IN THE
SAME CONCEPTS FOR THOSE
OF TIMES SQUARE AND TROY AND
ALL THE BUILDINGS THERE HAVE TO
ON EACH ONE THAT SHOW THAT SAME
ENTRANCE.
>> THESE PARTICULAR ONES THAT
I'M SHOWING IN THE PICTURES ARE
IN A DOWN IN THE LOWER CORNERS
VERSUS IN THE CENTER OF THE
BUILDINGS.
SO SURE.
>> SO THIS EXAMPLE THAT YOU
JUST SET AT THIS SIGN, WHAT IS
IT ALIGNED WITH?
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE YEAH BUT
BUT THE ENTRANCES AREN'T YEAH
BUT IT'S NOT SO IT'S CENTERED
IT'S IT'S NOT CENTERED IN THE
GABLES.
YES.
BELOW THE GABLE AREAS ARE WHERE
THE MAIN ENTRANCE WHICH IS WITH
THE CONCRETE PAD OUT THERE.
>> YEAH IT'S THE ONES IN THE
CORNERS ARE A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT BUT IT STILL SHOWS
THAT THE MAIN ENTRANCE IS GOING
TO THE CORNER.
>> YEAH BUT THERE'S NO
DISTINCTION BETWEEN BUILDING
THE BUILDING THERE ALL IS
AROUND SO IT'S NOT EMERGENCY IN
THE REASONING WHY YOU WOULD
YOU'RE APPLYING FOR THIS
VARIANCE IS FOR EMERGENCY
PERSONNEL TO GO TO ONE
ENTRANCES MARKET.
THEY BUT THEY'RE ALL MARKED A
THERE'S NO DISTINCTION BETWEEN
BUILDING FROM BUILDING BUILDING
THE BUILDING.
IT'S THE MAIN ENTRANCE.
SO IT'S MORE SO IF YOU HAD A
LOT OF DOORS SOME DOORS GO
DIRECTLY INTO AN APARTMENT THEY
THAT OK, GRACE.
YEAH.
SO IF I'M UNDERSTANDING THE
PURPOSE IS MORE TO DISTINGUISH
THAT THE MAIN DOOR THAT GOES IN
AND IS ACCESS FOR THE UPPER
FLOORS CORRECT FROM THE FIRST
FLOOR RESIDENCES THAT HAVE THE
DOORS DIRECTLY OK SADHGURU I
THINK THE PRESENT PRESENTATION
IS PRETTY MUCH WHAT IT IS.
>> IT'S YOU IT'S FOR TO HELP TO
FOR YOU HAVE PEOPLE COME OVER
SO
THEY KNOW WHAT DOOR TO GO
TO.
>> IT'S YOU KNOW IT'S IS THERE
ALSO WAYFINDING SIGNAGE ON THE
BUILDING FOR EMERGENCY
PERSONNEL LIKE REFLECTIVE
BUILDING NO SIGNS SOMETHING I
WOULD THINK WOULD BE RATHER
CONFUSING YOU KNOW GOING AROUND
THE END A SO THEN THIS IS KIND
OF BRANDING THEN BECAUSE
THERE'S ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES
THAT COULD BE USED IN PLACE
OF OF JUST PUTTING THE BRANDING
ON TOP AND SO IF THE BUILDINGS
ARE ALREADY IDENTIFIED BY A
NUMBER ON THE SIDE YOU SAID I
MEAN WE WE COULD STILL APPLY
FOR HAVING ONE LOGO ON THE
BUILDING IF THAT WAS THE
PURPOSE OF JUST HAVING
IDENTIFIER OR LOGO IF YOU WILL.
BUT WE'RE ACTUALLY TRYING TO
ACCOMPLISH THE ENTRIES AND TO
MATCH WHAT WE'VE DONE IN THE
PAST.
>> COULD ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES
BE USED INSTEAD OF SIGNAGE IN
THIS CASE LIKE TO SHOW THE
ENTRY WAYS LIKE USING
PLACEMAKING FEATURES LIKE AN
OVERHANG OR SOMETHING
DISTINGUISHED ENTRYWAY MAYBE AS
A LITTLE MORE ARE YOU THERE ARE
MULTIPLE OVERHANGS THAT ARE
ALREADY THERE.
OK, SO IT'S NOT NECESSARY TO
HAVE THE BRANDING BECAUSE
THERE'S ALREADY SOMETHING THAT
SHOWS I GUESS I'M JUST KIND
OF CONFUSED.
>> THERE'S AWNINGS OVER PRIVATE
ENTRANCES AS WELL AS THE COMMON
ENTRANCE LOOKS SIMILAR.
THAT'S WHAT IT DOESN'T SOUNDS
LIKE IT DOESN'T DISTINGUISH
BETWEEN A COMMON ENTRY AND A
INDIVIDUAL.
I MEAN THERE'S CANOPY'S IS
THERE ANY DISTINCTION WITH THAT
WITHIN THE CANOPY?
>> SO IS THAT WHEN YOU'RE
TRYING TO GET YEAH.
>> THERE'S NOTHING THAT'S YOU
KNOW, OTHER THAN ON THE FRONT
DOOR THERE'S GOING TO BE AN
APARTMENT.
NO, I GUESS THE COMMENTS ARE ON
THE PRIVATE ENTRANCE MAKING
SURE THAT THERE BE CLEAR I
GUESS SIGNAGE THAT THE
ADDRESSES YEAH.
THAT SHOWS WHERE THAT BREACH
APARTMENT HAS AN ADDRESS.
>> GOTCHA, CHRIS.
OK, SO I WANT TO ASK SO WE HAVE
A SERIES OF STANDARDS WHICH ARE
DIFFERENT THAN THE PREVIOUS TWO
VOTES WE TOOK MY QUESTION TO
YOU SPECIFICALLY IS WHAT IS THE
HARDSHIP THAT THIS PROPERTY
PRESENTS THAT REQUIRES YOU TO
GO ABOVE THE NUMBER OF SITES
ARE ALLOWED IN THE HEIGHT
OF DAIRYLAND AND SO I'M NOT
INTERESTED IN THE WAY THAT THAT
BUILDINGS ARE DESIGNED.
RIGHT.
THAT WAS A DECISION THAT THAT
DEVELOPER MADE.
AND SO WHAT I'M CURIOUS ABOUT
IS WHAT IS THE PROPERTY ITSELF?
WHAT ARE THE HARDSHIPS THAT
EXIST THAT REQUIRE YOU TO GO
ABOVE THAT NUMBER AND ABOVE
THAT?
>> THE ONE THAT I WOULD JUST
SAY IS JUST IDENTIFYING TO HELP
PEOPLE GET TO WHERE THEY'RE
GOING.
>> THANK DENHA I'M LOOKING AT
PISEK PRESENTED TO US AND WHAT
I'M SEEING AS ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURES THAT ALREADY
DISTINGUISH THAT MIDATLANTIC A
HIGHER PEAK WITH A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT SLOPING THAN THE
OTHER PEAKS AND A BIGGER AWNING
ABOVE THE DOOR.
>> I'M JUST WONDERING WHY YOU
COULDN'T BRING IN A LOGO THAT
MEETS OUR CODE AT TEN FEET AS
ANOTHER WAY TO IDENTIFY THAT
ENTRY SO THAT THAT'S WHERE I
HAVE TROUBLE AND WE'VE RECEIVED
COMMENTS FROM NEARBY RESIDENTS
ABOUT THESE ILLUMINATED LIGHTS
THIRTY FIVE FEET UP HIGH UP IN
THE BUILDING WHICH DO HAVE SOME
YOU KNOW THOSE ARGUMENTS REALLY
CARRY SOME WEIGHT WITH ME AND
I'M JUST WONDERING WHY YOU
COULDN'T JUST PUT THAT A IS
THERE ANYTHING PREVENTING YOU
FROM PUTTING THAT AID DOWN AT
THAT WHERE THAT LOWER AWNING IS
NOTHING REALLY PREVENTING IT
OTHER THAN THE FACT THAT WE'RE
TRYING TO FIND THE YOU KNOW, TO
DEFINE OUR SYMMETRY BETWEEN ALL
THE DIFFERENT BUILDINGS THAT
WE'VE DONE.
>> SO IT REALLY TENDS TO BE
SIMILAR TO THE ONE YOU'VE SHOWN
US IN THAT ONE SIDE UP TOWN
SQUARE YOU WANT THIS TO LOOK
LIKE THAT AND THAT'S IN ANOTHER
COMMUNITY.
SO YOU'RE TRYING TO HAVE THIS
LOOK CONSISTENT LOGO LIKE OH
WELL THEY MAY NOT HAVE OUR SIGN
OVER SO THAT'S THAT'S SOMETHING
YOU CAN DO THERE.
BUT WE YOU KNOW, IF YOU CAN
ACCOMPLISH THE GOAL
OF IDENTIFYING THAT ENTRANCE BY
COMPLYING WITH OUR SIGN
ORDINANCE AND HAVING THE LOGO
AT A LOWER HEIGHT, I JUST DON'T
SEE WHY YOU CAN'T DO THAT.
>> OK THEN THE QUESTION WILL
COME TO WILL WE BE ABLE TO DO
TWO OF THE I HAVE LESS PROBLEM
WITH THAT BECAUSE THERE ARE TWO
ENTRANCES ON THE BUILDING SO I
HAVE LESS PROBLEM WITH THAT.
BUT I'LL I'LL WAIT TO HEAR
DISCUSSION FROM THE REST OF THE
MEMBERS OF THE ZONING BOARD ON
THAT.
NOW THERE'S ALSO A LIGHTING
ORDINANCE THAT'S HERE AS WELL
THAT EVERYTHING HAS TO BE
TURNED OFF AT A CERTAIN TIME.
SO IT'S NOT LIKE THESE BURN ALL
NIGHT AND THEY'RE NOT REAL
BRIGHT ANYWAYS.
THEY'RE ALREADY THERE BLACK
FACED LIGHT.
THEY'RE BLACK FACE SO THE LIGHT
COMING THROUGH THEM IS LIKE
BRIGHT WHITE LIGHT.
AND THE OTHER QUESTIONS SORAYA
,A COUPLE FOR CLARIFICATION.
SURE.
SO I THINK YOU SAID I MEAN ONE
OF THE LETTERS WE GOT THAT IS
IN OPPOSITION TO THIS WILL ARE
PEOPLE FORGETTING WHERE THEY
LIVE?
THAT'S TO ME NOT REALLY THE
ISSUE THE ISSUE I THINK YOU DO
A GOOD JOB ON IS DESCRIBING
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN FIRE OR
EMERGENCY SHOWS UP.
THEY NEED TO BE ABLE TO
IDENTIFY THE BUILDINGS.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I
HEARD YOU CORRECTLY.
I THINK YOU SAID THAT THERE ARE
INDIVIDUAL ARE THESE APARTMENTS
OR CONDOS?
>> THESE ARE APARTMENTS THAT
THERE ARE INDIVIDUAL APARTMENTS
THAT HAVE DOORWAYS ON THE FIRST
FLOOR.
CORRECT.
SO THEY'RE IN LINE WITH THE
ONES THAT ARE ENTRANCE TO THE
ONES ABOVE THE FIRST FLOOR.
CORRECT.
SO THAT'S REALLY THE CONFUSION
.
CORRECT.
OKAY.
SO IS SADIR RECOMMENDED THAT
CONCERN REALLY IS WHAT MAKES
SENSE IN TERMS OF WAYFINDING IN
MY THINKING FOR FIRE POLICE,
AMBULANCE COMING IN NOT KNOWING
WHAT BUILDING IS WHAT THEY
WOULD BE ABLE TO IDENTIFY THE
COMMON BUILDINGS FROM THE
INDIVIDUAL APARTMENT.
BUT THE APARTMENTS ARE ALSO NO
RIGHT.
CORRECT IS WOULD THEY SEE IF IT
SAYS GO TO NUMBER 246, WHAT
WOULD THEY DO IS THERE ARE SOME
NUMBER THAT SAYS WHAT APARTMENT
NUMBERS OR IN WHAT PART OF THE
BUILDING?
>> YEAH, ANOUGH THE PRIVATE
ENTRANCE ONCE THEY HAVE AN
ACTUAL PLAQUE THAT ARE ON EACH
DOOR WITH ITS APARTMENT NUMBER,
THE INTERIOR ONES THAT ARE
COMMON ENTRANCE YOU GO IN AND
AROUND THE DOORS ON THE
INTERIOR BUT WE PUT VINYL
LETTERING ON THE OUTSIDE THAT
JUST SHOW APARTMENT NUMBERS SO
AN AMBULANCE COMING IN OR A
FIRE THEY WOULD NEED TO KNOW A
ROUGH IDEA AND THE ROW
OF ENTRANCES WHERE THAT NUMBER
APARTMENT IS, THEY WOULDN'T BE
ABLE TO SEE IT FROM THE STREET,
CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
WELL, SHOULDN'T THAT BE PART
OF A WAYFINDING SOLUTION TO WE
HAVE NOT ALWAYS FINDING
SOLUTIONS AND THERE'S ALSO A
PACKAGE THAT GOES TO THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT THAT HAS EVERYTHING
OBVIOUSLY CORRECT?
YES.
THEY KNOW THE YES.
SO MY OTHER QUESTION IS I
ASSUME THAT THE SIZE OF THE
LOGO IF YOU ASSUME PLACEMENT UP
TOP THAT DICTATES THE LARGER
SIZE AND IF IT'S PLACED TEN
FEET.
>> AM I CORRECT ABOUT THAT THAT
YEAH.
WE KEEP IT WITHIN THE
CONFORMITY OF HAVING ONE SIGN
BUT IF IT'S UP AM I CORRECT IN
SAYING I WOULD HAVE TO BE A
LITTLE LARGER THAN IF IT WERE
TEN FEET?
>> YEAH THAT TYPE OF SIGN AT
THAT SIZE IS PRETTY MUCH TO BE
PUT LIGHTING ELEMENTS IN IT TO
KEEP THEM DEMRE IT'S THE DEPTH
OF IT'S WHAT REALLY MATTERS SO
IT'S NOT REALLY THE SIZE OF IT.
>> IT WOULD YOU START AGAIN
WITH THE LIGHTING IS GOING TO
BE ON THESE LEIDY'S BUT IT HAS
A THE SIGNS LOOK BLACK BECAUSE
THERE'S A MESH ON THE FRONT
OF THEM SO AT NIGHT ONLY A
PERCENTAGE OF THE LIGHT IS
COMING THROUGH.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY MORE
QUESTIONS DENHA SO THE ACTING
CHAIR RAISED SOME ISSUES ABOUT
THE ADDRESSING AND THE
APARTMENT NUMBERS.
SO THIS BUILDING HAS TWO
ENTRANCES IS THAT TWO DIFFERENT
STREET ADDRESSES NOT THE
APARTMENT NUMBERS BUT THE
STREET ADDRESSES ON I BELIEVE
HAVE DONE BY ADDRESS AND
BUILDING NUMBER.
>> IT'S A SINGLE ADDRESS
BUILDING AND UNIT NUMBERS
PROBABLY.
YES, SIR.
CAN YOU COME UP AND PUT YOUR
NAME ON THE RECORD SO WE HAVE A
RECORD SO TRYING TO PUT YOU ON
THE SPOT HERE IS ONE WHERE ON
THIS DOES THE STREET ADDRESS SO
THEY COULD YOU WAIT FOR THE
GENTLEMAN?
>> CERTAINLY
YOUR NAME SIR.
MY NAME IS PETER CAMP.
THANK YOU.
>> SO AS I'M LOOKING AT THIS
I'M THINKING THE STREET ADDRESS
CAN GO AT THE COMMON ENTRY ON
BOTH OF THESE AND THAT WOULD BE
A DISTINGUISHING FEATURE FROM
THOSE OTHER FIRST FLOOR
APARTMENTS.
ADDITIONALLY, THOSE AWNINGS
WHICH ARE WIDER THEY'RE ALREADY
VISUALLY DIFFERENT COULD BE
RAISED A LITTLE BIT.
I'M NOT AN ARCHITECT BUT THESE
ARE SIMPLE THINGS THAT I COULD
THAT I CAN SEE THAT CREATE
DISTINGUISH WHAT THE COMMON
ENTRY IS AS DISTINCT FROM THOSE
FIRST FLOOR SINGLE APARTMENT
ENTRIES AND THEY COULD BE DOWN
THERE WHERE THAT WIDER AWNING
IS AND THAT WOULD BE ANOTHER
DISTINGUISHING FEATURE OF THAT
COMMON ENTRY TO THE TO THE
NUMBER OF THE MULTIPLE UNITS
UPSTAIRS.
SO I'M LOOKING AT EASILY THERE
ARE ARCHITECTURAL SOLUTIONS TO
MEET THE NEEDS THAT YOU'VE
ADDRESSED FOR IDENTIFYING THOSE
AS THE COMMON ENTRIES.
SO I JUST WANT TO PUT THAT ON
THE RECORD THAT I SEE
ALTERNATIVE
WAYS TO ACCOMPLISH
YOUR GOALS FROM OUR INTENT IN
TERMS OF THAT LOGO SIGN AND
WHERE THAT WOULD SIT.
I MEAN THIS IS A GREAT EXAMPLE
OF THIS PICTURE THAT YOU'RE
SHARING IF I'M A RESIDENT OR
I'M A GUEST OF THE RESIDENT OR
EMERGENCY PERSONNEL, I PULL IN
AND I LOOK AT THIS BUILDING I
HAVE SIX GABLES NOW TO THE
GABLES ARE A LITTLE MORE
PROMINENT AND THAT'S WHERE WE
WANT TO PUT THE LOGO.
BUT ARE SIX OF THEM AND AT THE
AT THE GROUND LEVEL HAVE
INDIVIDUAL TREES WHERE PEOPLE
CAN WALK IN RIGHT INTO THEIR
UNIT.
BUT THOSE TWO CAUSE WHERE WE
WANT TO PUT SIGNIFY THESE THESE
LITTLE LOGOS ARE THE COMMON
COURSE THAT FEED THOSE WE HAVE
EIGHT UNITS UP THERE SO IT'S
JUST A WAY FOR US FROM THE
STREET.
SO IF YOU'RE DRIVING UP IF WE
WERE TO ACCENTUATE THE THE
CANOPY AT THE CANOPY LEVEL, YOU
KNOW, SOMETIMES THERE'S TRUCKS
THERE THERE MIGHT BE SOMETHING
IN THE WAY WE JUST THOUGHT
PUTTING UP IN THE GABLE MIGHT
BE A LITTLE MORE DISTINCTIVE
WAY TO EMPHASIZE WERE THAT
COMMON IS FOR RESIDENTS OF GAS
FOR EMERGENCY PERSONNEL.
THAT WAS SORT OF THE THOUGHT
OF WHY WE LIKED IT UP THERE.
I THINK THE OTHER THING TO
POINT WE HAVE 18 BUILDINGS IN
THIS COMMUNITY.
WE HAVE SEVEN OF THEM THAT HAVE
THIS SORT OF FLATS FEATURE.
SO THE OTHER BUILDINGS ARE ALL
TOWNHOMES.
THEY DON'T HAVE THIS LOGO ON
THEM.
THEY HAVE INDIVIDUAL TREES THAT
ARE THAT ARE LIT.
BUT FOR THESE FLATTENED
BUILDINGS WE WERE TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW DO WE
DISTINGUISH FOR RESIDENTS GUESS
THE PERSONNEL WHERE THAT COMMON
CORE IS AND THIS WAS SORT
OF IDEA WANT TO MAKE SURE IT
WAS UP.
AND I THINK THE OTHER THING TO
POINT OUT IS THESE BUILDINGS
ALL FACE TOWARDS EACH OTHER
TOWARDS THE CENTER OF THE
COMMUNITY.
BUT NONE OF THESE BUILDINGS
FACE OUT TOWARDS OUR NEIGHBOR
TO THE SOUTH OF US OR TO THE
EAST OF US.
SO YOU KNOW THAT IN THAT SENSE
WE TRY TO AT LEAST KEEP IT YOU
KNOW, SOME OF THIS INTERNAL
WAYFINDING ANNUNCIATING WHERE
THE COMMON ENTRY IS INTERNAL TO
A COMMUNITY CHRISTINA.
SURE.
HAS THIS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE
FIRE DEPARTMENT?
AH, AND AND WHAT WERE THEIR
COMMENTS TO BECAUSE USUALLY I
MEAN THEY WOULD HAVE STRONG
FEELINGS FOR NAVIGATING A SITE
SO IT WOULDN'T COME TO US TO
DETERMINE IF SOMETHING IS
MEETING.
I MEAN WE SHOULDN'T BE THE
AUTHORITY TO GET IN THE WAY OUR
EMERGENCY PERSONNEL I'VE HAD
COMMUNICATION WITH MARSHALL
REDMOND AND YOU KNOW HE DOES
HIS THING IS IS THAT ALL HE
CARES ABOUT IS AT THE FRONT
OF THE WINDOWS, HAVE THE
APARTMENT NUMBERS ON THEM AND
THE ENDS HAVE OF BUILDINGS.
SO I'VE ALREADY HAD THAT
DISCUSSION ON YES, SIR.
COULD YOU ELABORATE ON THAT TO
EACH APARTMENT WINDOW HAS A BIG
NUMBER ON IT.
NO, NOT A WINDOW.
THE THE MAIN ENTRY THAT MAKES
ALL THE DOORS HAVE THEIR OWN
NUMBER ON THEM SO I I WAS GOING
TO INTERJECT TO I HAD THE SAME
CONVERSATION WITH THE FIRE
MARSHAL AND HE HE SAID THE SAME
THING HE SAID WHAT THEY WILL
USE THEY WILL BE LOOKING FOR
THE ADDRESS ABOVE THE DOORS TO
GET TO IDENTIFY THE BUILDINGS.
SO HE SAID HE WASN'T HE WAS
NEUTRAL.
HE SAID IT WASN'T FOR THIS OR
AGAINST THESE LOGOS.
THEY WON'T BE RAISING THEM
THOUGH THEY HAVE A GPS SYSTEM
FROM DISPATCH IN THEIR TRUCKS
AND THEY'RE USE THAT GPS TO GET
TO THE BUILDING BASED ON THAT
GPS SO THEY WON'T THESE WON'T
BE USED.
IT'S IT'S NOT THAT'S NOT WHAT
THEY'RE GOING TO BE USING TO
IDENTIFY THESE BUILDINGS.
>> SO LET ME ASK IF A QUESTION
FOR PEDESTRIANS OR GUESS WHO
NEVER BEEN HEREOW ARE THEY
GOING TO FIND WHICH PART OF THE
LARGE BUILDING IS WHERE THEIR
FRIEND OR YOU KNOW, WHATEVER
THEY HAVE TO GO DOWN A SERIES
OF DOORS OR WHAT ARE EASIEST
WAY I KNOW THAT OUT AND TRY
IT'S YOU KNOW OR IN A BUILDING
FOR OR AT THE SECOND LEVEL.
>> OK, YOU'RE ALWAYS FAMILIAR
WITH THINGS LIKE THAT OF HAVING
WORKED IN A BUNCH OF DETROIT
SUBURBS.
IT ALWAYS SEEMS TO ME THAT IT
WOULD BE HELPFUL IF THEY WERE A
LITTLE MIDDLE
HE SAY, YOU KNOW,
BUILDING G, BUILDING H SO YOU
KNOW WHERE IT IS AS OPPOSED TO
HAVING TO GO DOWN THE ENTIRE
THING AND HOPING YOU LUCK OUT
THE FIRST TIME.
SO I REALIZE THIS PART
OF WAYFINDING NOT HERE BUT IT'S
ANYTHING ELSE YOU WANT TO SAY.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
I HAVE ONE MORE QUESTION.
SO TO LOWER THE SIGN WAS THAT
LOOKED AT I MEAN WAS THAT DRAWN
TO SEE IF IT FITS WITHIN THE
ZONE, ABOVE THE CANOPY AND
BELOW THE WINDOW AND I GUESS I
COULD DRAW IT OUT THAT WAY.
OK, IS THERE ANYONE IN THE
AUDIENCE WHO WISHES TO MA'AM
PLEASE YOU'VE BEEN SITTING HERE
PATIENTLY THROUGH THE OTHER TWO
APPLICATIONS.
PLEASE COME UP TO THE LECTERN
AND I SAY YOUR NAME AND WRITE
YOUR NAME PLEASE.
>> YES, MY NAME IS JOANNE
PAWLICK AND I'LL WRITE IT DOWN
.
MISS POLLACK, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES FOR YOUR QUESTIONS.
DON'T COUNT.
WE MAY EXTEND YOUR THREE
MINUTES.
>> ALL RIGHT.
GOOD ENOUGH ONE OF THE REASONS
I'M HERE TO OBJECT TO THAT
SIGNAGE HEIGHTH FOR ONE THING,
NOBODY HERE HAS MENTIONED THAT
THAT BUILDING THOSE BUILDINGS
ARE LOCATED ON THE PROBABLY THE
HIGHEST PART OF ANN ARBOR.
I LIVE IN SUMMIT VIEW WHICH IS
TO THE TO SLIGHTLY TO THE NORTH
RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET FROM
THE CHURCH THERE AND WE CHANGED
OUR NAME TO SUMMIT VIEW BECAUSE
THAT IS THE HIGHEST PART OF OUR
NUMBER.
THEN YOU GO AND PUT SIGNS UP 35
FEET ABOVE THAT YOU HAVE A BIG
COMPLEX WHERE I LIVE AND YOU
HAVE ANOTHER BIG COMPLEX TO THE
TO THE SOUTH OF IT SURREY PARK
AND BOTH OF US WILL HAVE THOSE
SIGNS SHINING IN OUR WINDOWS.
THE OTHER I AND I SPEAK ABOUT
THIS BECAUSE ONE DAY THERE WERE
THERE WAS A CAR COMING DOWN AND
DOWN THE DRIVE FROM THE COMPLEX
AND EXCUSE ME THE LIGHTS FROM
THAT FROM THAT THAT CAR SHOWN
IN MY THIRD FLOOR APARTMENT
WINDOW WHICH FACES MAPLE NOW I
SEE NO REASON WHY THEY CAN'T
HAVE THEM LOWER DOWN BECAUSE
THERE ARE TWO COMPLEXES TWO TO
ON EITHER SIDE OF THAT COMPLEX
WHICH ARE GOING TO BE AFFECTED
BY ALL THIS LIGHT.
AND I UNDERSTAND TOO THAT AS
TIME GOES ON THERE WILL
PROBABLY BE COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS WITHIN THAT COMPLEX
AND WILL THOSE COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS ALSO HAVE SIGNAGE ON
THEM WHICH IS GOING TO CREATE
MORE LIGHT POLLUTION FOR THE
FOR ALL OF US?
>> I FORGOT A SIGN SIZE YOU
SAID IT WAS THIRTY BY ONE AT 28
I'M 30 INCHES BY 30 BY 28 AND I
OBJECT TO IT BECAUSE SEVERAL
OF US OBJECT TO THIS.
I ACTUALLY SPOKE WITH THE BOARD
OUR BOARD PRESIDENT TODAY AND
ONE MINUTE REMAINING PARDON ONE
MINUTE REMAINING.
THANK YOU AND ONE OF THE THINGS
WE LIKE ABOUT OUR AREA IS THAT
IT WAS ZONED ZONED RESIDENTIAL
AND THIS IS RESIDENTIAL AND WE
DON'T WANT IT TO LOOK LIKE A
COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE WITH
SIGNAGE ON ALL OVER THE PLACE
SAYING PROPOSED PROPOSED
COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS AS WELL
AND I GUESS THAT'S WHERE PRETTY
MUCH WHERE I STAND ON THIS.
>> THANK ANY QUESTIONS FOR MISS
PARK.
OH, RIGHT.
IS HAS ANYBODY EMAILED IN
ACTUALLY TO HAVE ONE PERSON
EMAIL ME IN SUPPORT OF THE
PROJECT?
THEY SAID I APPRECIATE THE
DISCUSSION.
WE LIVE ACROSS THE STREET AND
JOIN THE MEETING AGAINST THE
PROPOSAL NOW THAT WE UNDERSTAND
WE ARE NOT AGAINST THE THIRTY
FIVE FEET IN TWO LINES.
>> WHAT WAS THE NAME?
>> THERE'S NOT A NAME IS JUST
AN EMAIL ADDRESS.
I KNOW THAT WE DID RECEIVE TWO
COMMUNICATIONS ONE FROM A J.W.
BELLISLE AGAINST THE PROJECT
AND AGAINST THE SIGNAGE AND ONE
FROM MR FRANKIE HANKE ALSO
AGAINST THE PROJECT DECIDED
AGAINST THE SIGNAGE AND THAT I
THINK ARE PUBLIC COMMENTS ARE
CLOSE AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MA'AM.
DON'T WE?
>> YEAH.
HIYA.
SO I'M NOT INCLINED TO SUPPORT
THIS.
I THINK THAT IT'S PRIMARILY A
BRANDING EXERCISE.
I THINK IF THERE'S ANY
WAYFINDING PROBLEMS IT'S A
PROBLEM OF THEIR OWN DOING.
THEY CAN FIGURE OUT OTHER WAYS
AND I CAN UNDERSTAND NOT
WANTING KIND OF A HOTEL LOOK IF
I'M LIVING NEARBY SO I DON'T I
WON'T SUPPORT THIS.
DAVE.
I THINK I'VE MADE MY FEELINGS
CLEAR WITH MY QUESTIONING.
I THINK THERE ARE ALTERNATIVE
WAYS TO DO THIS AND MEET OUR
STANDARDS SO I'LL BE VOTING
AGAINST IT.
SUDHEER IS YOUR HAND UP?
YEAH.
OK, FOR MY VISUAL OF THESE TO
BE HIGHER SORRY ALL I WILL DO
YEAH.
>> SO I WON'T BE SUPPORTING
THIS ARE SAME REASONS AND I
JUST WANT TO THROW OUT THERE TO
THE DISTINGUISHING THE
APARTMENTS WITH THE BRANDING AS
OPPOSED OTHER HOUSING TYPES IS
ANOTHER JUST KIND OF STRIKE
AGAINST IT FOR ME GRACE IS YOUR
END UP OR IT IS NO OK I'M
GETTING NERVOUS EVERY TIME I
SEE AND LIFTED LIFTED OFF THE
DESK ANY OTHER OK WELL EMOTION
PLEASE
.
>> I WAS TRYING TO RECRUIT A
NEW WE KNEW WE SHOULD HAVE WE
SHOULD HAVE A MOTION READING
SPECIAL MEETING PERHAPS CASE
I'LL BE HAPPY TO MAKE A MOTION
ZEBA TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO
ZERO THREE FIVE TWO FIVE ZERO
ONE AVENUE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS
INVARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT TWENTY FOUR DASH FOR
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
SIGNS TO ALLOW THIRTEEN
ILLUMINATED LOGO SIGNS THIRTY
FIVE FEET FROM THE GROUND WHEN
A MAXIMUM OF TEN FEET IN HEIGHT
IS WHAT IS PERMITTED.
THE VARIANCE ALSO ALLOWS THE
INSTALLATION OF TWO LOGO SIGNS
ON SIX BUILDINGS WHEN THE
ORDINANCE ALLOWS FOR ONE WALL
SIGN PER BUILDING THE SIGNS ARE
TO BE INSTALLED PER THE
APPLICATION SUPPORT SUPPORT
GOOD GRIEF AND READY FOR THE
VOTING CHRIS NO GREASE, NO
DRAMA, NO SEDRA, NO DAVE DAVE
ALREADY NO CHRISTINA NO AND I
ALSO VOTE NO.
SORRY I THOUGHT YOUR
APPLICATION IS DENIED RIGHT.
THAT CONCLUDES THE APPLICANTS
FOR TONIGHT.
NOW WE'RE ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
ANY UNFINISHED BUSINESS WE
DON'T HAVE HEARING NONE.
>> WE'RE UNDER NEW BUSINESS SO
AND I I HAVE SOME NEW BUSINESS
TO PRESENT TO THE BOARD.
WE HAVE A DECISION TO MAKE THIS
EVENING.
I WAS NOTIFIED ABOUT TWO WEEKS
AGO THAT THE IT DEPARTMENT WILL
BE MAKING MODIFICATIONS AND
CHANGES TO THIS ROOM, LOTS
OF TECHNOLOGY UPGRADES AND SO
THIS ROOM WILL BE SHUT DOWN THE
LAST TWO WEEKS OF APRIL AND SO
WE HAVE TWO OPTIONS BEFORE US.
WE CAN CANCEL.
YOU CAN CANCEL.
I DON'T HAVE THAT AUTHORITY
THAT'S I'M BRINGING IT TO YOU.
YOU CAN VOTE TO CANCEL THE
APRIL MEETING OR WE CAN HAVE IT
IN THE ALTERNATIVE LOCATION
WHICH WOULD BE MOST LIKELY IN
THE BASEMENT BASICALLY WHERE WE
HAD THE RETREAT OR THE LAST
SUMMER.
IT DOES PRESENT SOME CHALLENGES
BASED ON THE SIZE OF THE ROOM.
IT'S KIND OF SMALL.
IT'S ONLY HAS ONE MONITOR AND
AND TRYING TO HAVE TO WORK OUT
SOME SOME ALTERNATIVES WITH
C10.
>> SO IT IS GOING TO BE A
CHALLENGE.
SO EITHER WAY YOU'RE NOT GOING
TO BREAK MY HEART BUT IT'S UP
TO YOU AS IF I HAD TO VOTE THE
WAY I WOULD SUGGEST WE MIGHT
HAVE TO CANCEL APRIL SO BUT
IT'S ENTIRELY DO YOU IF YOU
GUYS WANT TO DISCUSS IT GO
AHEAD.
THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS DENHA I
WOULD ARGUE WE MEET ONCE A
MONTH ONCE AND ONLY ONCE A
MONTH DEVELOPERS AND BUILDERS
ARE RELIANT ON THE DECISIONS WE
MAKE AT THIS MEETING FOR THEIR
CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
APRIL IS RIGHT AT THE BEGINNING
OF CONSTRUCTION SEASON AND I
THINK WE HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO
MEET IF WE CAN IF WE MET MORE
FREQUENTLY I COULD SEE I WOULD
ARGUE OK, LET'S SKIP A MEETING
BUT IF WE SKIP A MEETING THEN
THAT'S LIKE TWO TWO MONTHS
BETWEEN MEETINGS.
SO I WOULD ARGUE FOR THE
MEETING.
I WOULD ALSO SUGGEST THERE ARE
OTHER PLACES IN THE COMMUNITY
THAT SEATON IS HOOKED INTO LIKE
THE PUBLIC LIBRARY HAS A SPACE
THAT THEY AND OUR SCHOOL BOARD
USES.
>> SO THERE ARE OTHER OPTIONS
FOR US THAT WOULD POTENTIALLY I
KNOW THERE'S SOME COORDINATION
THAT WOULD BE HAVE TO BE DONE
BUT AND I THINK THE SCHOOL
BOARD MEETS ON WEDNESDAYS ALSO
.
BUT IT'S THAT'S JUST MY
ARGUMENT AND I'LL GO ALONG WITH
WHAT THE MAJORITY OF THE BOARD
THINKS CHRIS.
>> YEAH, SO SOMEONE WHO GOES
BEFORE CBUS TO ASK FOR APPROVAL
FOR THIS JOB I DON'T DISAGREE
WITH DAVE.
I THINK THE SCHEDULE IS
IMPORTANT.
>> I THINK I REACH A DIFFERENT
CONCLUSION.
I'D BE OK THE ROUTE
OF CANCELING ESPECIALLY SEVERAL
MONTHS IN ADVANCE AS LONG AS
STAFF ARE COMFORTABLE THAT THEY
COULD, YOU KNOW, PROPERLY
ADVERTISE THAT, YOU KNOW, WE
NEED TO GET CERTAIN THINGS IN
FOR THE MARCH MEETING OR PLAN
FOR ME.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S THE
WEBSITE OR HANDOUTS OR WHAT BUT
I FEEL VERY COMFORTABLE AT THIS
POINT SAYING WE CAN'T MEET
HERE.
IT'S OK TO CANCEL ONE THREE
MONTHS IN ADVANCE AS LONG AS
IT'S YOU KNOW, THE PEOPLE WHO
NEED TO ARE CAN BE NOTIFIED OR
FIND OUT WHEN THEY TRY TO APPLY
A GREAT QUICK QUESTION.
>> OUR MAIN MEETING IS MOVED TO
THE BASEMENT RIGHT NOW ISN'T
IT?
WASN'T ONE OF OUR MEETINGS HAS
TO BE DOWN THERE IS THE RETREAT
SOUNDS LIKE THAT WAS THE
RETREAT RETREAT.
I THOUGHT ONE OF OUR MEETINGS
THIS YEAR THE LOCATION GOT
CHANGED BECAUSE COURTNEY SENT
OUT A NEW INVITE SORRY TO PUT
YOU ON THE SPOT BECAUSE MY
QUESTION WAS IF THAT WAS THE
MAIN MEETING IS THERE LIKE A
DATE IN BETWEEN WE COULD LIKE
CONSOLIDATE BOTH OF THEM SO YOU
WOULDN'T HAVE TO SET UP
ANYTHING IN THE BASEMENT?
WE COULD DO IT UP HERE AND THEN
IT WOULD KIND OF BE HALFWAY IN
BETWEEN IF SO IF PEOPLE HAVE A
DEADLINE THEY'RE TRYING TO MEET
THEY COULD WHICH I DON'T EXPECT
YOU TO HAVE A DATE AT THIS
MEETING ROOM IS OPEN OFF THE
TOP OF YOUR HEAD.
BUT IF YOU COULD MAYBE LOOK AND
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S
SOMETHING OTHER PEOPLE WANT TO
GET TO SOME SORT OF IF I MAY I
THINK PART OF OUR DIFFICULTY I
THINK IS WE DON'T KNOW WHAT IS
IN THE PIPELINE IF THERE WERE
TO BE FOUR OR FIVE HERE.
HERE'S WHAT I WOULD GET IN
RESPONSE TO THAT KIND
OF PIGGYBACKING OFF DAVE.
I WILL AS A STAFF I WILL DO MY
BEST TO BEEF UP THE MARCH AND
THE MAY AGENDAS TO TRY TO
ACCOMMODATE EVERYBODY.
SO JUST BE AWARE THOSE TWO
MEETINGS MARCH AND MAY PROBABLY
GOING TO BE LONGER MEETINGS IN
ABOUT SIX OR SEVEN APPLICATIONS
ON EACH ONE POSSIBLY SO GRACE
WAS CORRECT.
MAY IS IN THE BASEMENT.
YOU KNOW THAT'S IT.
I'M I'M GLAD I WASN'T IMAGINING
THAT I WAS YOU.
>> ALRIGHT SO THE TWO TWO
MEETINGS IN THE BASEMENT THEN I
GUESS WE'RE OR EARLY MAY WELL
MYSIDE I DON'T THINK WE HAVE
ENOUGH INFORMATION AT THIS
POINT TO CALL.
I THINK DAVE'S COMMENTS ARE
WELL SAID THAT WE HAVE A PUBLIC
OBLIGATION BUT IF APPLICANTS
ARE UNDERSTANDING AND IT
DOESN'T AFFECT AS THEY SAY THE
CRITICAL PATH AND THE
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT IS
APPROVAL THEN PEOPLE WOULD
UNDERSTAND.
BUT THAT IS GOING TO IMPACT
SOMEBODY'S CRITICAL PATH IF
IT'S GOING TO INCREASE THEIR
CONSTRUCTION COSTS, THEN YOU
KNOW, I'M A LITTLE CONCERNED
ABOUT THAT.
WE OUGHT TO BE ABLE TO FIND
SOMETHING TO ACCOMMODATE THAT.
BUT AT THIS POINT MAYBE WE
DON'T KNOW.
MAYBE THE THING TO DO IS TO
ADDRESS IT NEXT MONTH.
IS THAT POSSIBLE?
MAKE A FINAL DECISION THEN
WOULD YOU JOHN?
WOULD YOU HAVE A BETTER IDEA
WHO'S COMING THROUGH THE
PIPELINE A MONTH FROM NOW?
POSSIBLY YES.
IT'S DIFFICULT BECAUSE I'LL
HAVE SOME PEOPLE APPLY A MONTH
OUT AND I'LL HAVE PEOPLE OTHER
PEOPLE APPLY THE DAY TO DO WELL
IF WE POSTPONE THE DECISION FOR
A MONTH AND THAT MIGHT HELP.
IS THAT ENOUGH TIME TO YEAH.
>> GET SOME MORE INFORMATION OR
IF I GET IT EVEN SOONER I CAN
EMAIL EVERYBODY.
YEAH.
AND THEN MAYBE YOU WANT TO SEND
ME BACK A SENATE VOTE BACK TO
ME THROUGH EMAIL.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
WELL WE PROBABLY I THINK WE
PROBABLY SHOULD VOTE PUBLICLY.
MY SENSE IS TO PUSH THIS OFF
FOR A MONTH.
WE HAVE A BETTER IDEA DOMMETT I
DON'T HAVE ANY PROBLEM PUSHING
THE DECISION UP BUT I GUESS I
WOULD ALSO SAY IF WE'VE ALREADY
PLANNED TO HAVE A MEETING DOWN
THERE, I GUESS I'M NOT REALLY
SEEING THAT ARGUMENT KIND
OF EVAPORATE.
IT'S FOR ME OF WHY WE SHOULD
CANCEL IT BECAUSE IT HAS TO BE
IN THE BASEMENT.
WE NEED TO DO THAT FOR ME.
>> SO WHY CAN'T WE DO IT FOR
APRIL?
YEAH, I DON'T STAFF YOU KNOW
WHAT'S TO TODAY SO I'M GETTING
A SENSE THAT THE THE MAJORITY
OF US WOULD LIKE TO KICK THE
CAN DOWN THE STREET FOR A MONTH
AND THEN LOOK INTO IF THERE'S A
DAY WE COULD DO LIKE A HALF
BETWEEN APRIL AND MAY BUT
THERE'S A DAY THAT'S OK JUST SO
WE HAVE THE INFORMATION NEXT
MONTH AND A FINAL DECISION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO TO BE WE'LL PUT IT ON THE
AGENDA NEXT MONTH IT'LL BE
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
>> JOHN, WE JUST CONFIRMED THAT
THEY DO NEED THE LAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS IN APRIL BECAUSE
SOMETIMES TIMELINES FLOAT A
LITTLE BIT IN AND OUT.
THEY DO THEY SEND AN EMAIL TO
START CONSTRUCTION APRIL 17TH.
>> I MEAN THE END OF THE MONTH
OK?
I MEAN THEY'RE DEAD SET THAT
YES.
THEY UNDERSTAND HERE THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO REPAINT NASSER
.
I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THE I JUST
HEARD I WAS GOING TO UNDER
CONSTRUCTION PROBLEMS THEY'RE
GOING TO FIX THIS AND WE HOPE
HERE NO MORE TALK PROBLEMS
JUST
WITH US.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
OK, I GUESS WE'RE ONTO ANY
OTHER COMMUNICATIONS COURTNEY
OR SOMEBODY RAISE THEIR HAND
AND I MISS DHABA.
>> MAYBE YOU SHOULD STAND UP.
SORRY I'M TRYING TO DEVELOP A
NEW ROUTINE ABOUT LETTING THE
ZIBA KNOW ABOUT NEW ZONING
CHANGES.
CITY COUNCIL ON MONDAY PASSED
THE REZONING OF THE PLYMOUTH
CORRIDOR TO TRANSIT ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT THAT'S FIFTY THREE
UNIQUE PARCELS ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVEN UNIQUE ADDRESSES ONE
HUNDRED AND NINETY SEVEN ACRES
AND THAT IS THE THIRD AREA I
BELIEVE THAT IT'S BEEN ZONED
TRANSIT ORIENTED ZONING.
>> WE ALSO MADE A CHANGE FOR
OUR STREET.
WHAT'S FROM PLYMOUTH ROCK?
>> FROM WHAT TO WHAT?
I'M SORRY I DON'T KNOW THE
ANSWER OFFHAND THAT MAYBE STAFF
DOES DOES ANYBODY KNOW IT'S IN
THE MATERIALS BUT I DON'T KNOW
OFFHAND.
>> OK, WHAT WAS THE QUESTION
WHAT ARE THE END STREET AND
POINTS FOR THE PLYMOUTH
REZONING TO DC ONE WHAT ARE THE
NEARBY STREETS OF THE STIRTON
AND OR APPROXIMATELY I THINK IT
GOES OUT TO GREEN ROAD GREEN
AND PLAY HERE IN PARK TWENTY OR
MAYBE BUT IT EXTENDS CLEARLY
OUT TO THE EDGE OF THE CITY.
I THINK IT MAY BE HOUSING TO
THAT INFORMATION.
>> OK, JUST OUT OF CURIOSITY
EMAIL EVERYBODY THAT IS FOR ME.
>> OK THANKS.
SORRY ABOUT THAT AND WE MADE A
CHANGE TO THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE TO ALLOW
PERSONAL SCALE SOLAR AND FRONT
YARDS AND BACKYARDS IN
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
SO THOSE WERE PROHIBITED IN THE
PAST AND NOW THEY ARE ALLOWED
AND THAT'S IT.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
THANK AND THERE'S NO ONE IN THE
AUDIENCE SO THERE IS NO
ADDITIONAL PUBLIC COMMENTS AND
NOW WE'RE ON TO THE FINAL ITEM
ADJOURNMENT.
>> OK, I SEE A BIG RUSH TO
DURING THE MEETING.
>> I THINK WE'RE ADJOURNED.
YES, WE'RE ADJOURNED.
>> WE SHOULD VOTE.
OH, WE ARE ALL IN FAVOR BY
ANYBODY AGAINST I DON'T OR ANY
WORDIER SO SO